So time to reach out to our service and call get post and for this, I will not actually use the constructor,
though that would be possible but it's a better practice to use a special lifecycle hook angular provides,
there are lifecycle hooks which angular will automatically execute when it creates a component and one
of them is the onInit lifecycle hook.
We added by implementing an interface, this is essentially a contract this class now signs, it's called
on init and it's imported from @angular/core and this implementation now actually causes an error
because now we're required to add a special method to our class here, the ngOnInit method and once we
add this, everything is great again.
So now ngOnInit, this is a function angular will automatically execute for us when it creates
this component and it's recommended to do basic initialization tasks in ngOnInit
and there I can now set this post equal to this posts service,
remember this automatically created a property of the same name and there, get posts like this.
Now we fetch all the posts,
of course our posts are empty at the beginning though so we'll need to add posts and for this, we can
go to post create and there,
I also want to connect to my service, so I'll add my constructor here too, use the shortcut to automatically
create a property named posts service and add type post service, import is added automatically by
my IDE,
don't forget these curly braces and now posts service is injected here too.
Now here I want to reach out to the posts service not on ngOnInit
but when I created a new post. So here I will actually remove @output,
I don't need it anymore,
don't need the whole event emitter anymore.
Remove both imports and instead,
instead of emitting,
I will now simply call this posts service add post and pass my post there
or we're actually expecting a title and a string and a content so I can just pass these values here,
title and content as arguments,
I don't even need to construct a post in this file therefore,
so this means we can get rid of the post import here too.
So now we're calling add post from within the post create component and we're calling get posts from within
the post list component and in the post service, we're connecting this,
let's give this a try.
If I enter something here and I click save post, nothing happens and
what's wrong here?
Now what's wrong is that we're getting posts when the post lists component is created with ngOnInit
.
and at this point of time, we get an empty list there,
right, it's
an empty list of posts, when we later add posts, this doesn't do anything because we created a copy
of posts and return that.
So if we edit the original array thereafter, this doesn't well affect anything on our post list component,
by the way we can also remove input here.
So this is the reason why it's not working because we fetched a post, a copy of them before we added
them.
Now there are a couple of ways of solving that, we could not fetch a copy for example, if we do that,
you will see that
now if this reloads, I get an error, right
because I should go to my app component html file and remove the bindings here,
we don't need that anymore to manage our posts.
Let's also remove it in the typescript file of the app component and remove the post import, so let's
save all that.
So now if I go back, it loads again and if I now enter something here, you'll see the posts are added again
but this is not the cleanest way of doing that,
I'm a fan of copying this to avoid unwanted manipulation of the posts in any component which is fetching
our posts.
So a better way is to use an event-driven approach where we actively push the information about new
posts being available to the components which are interested
and for that we could use the event emitter but the event emitter is really meant to be used in conjunction
with that @output decorator,
instead I'll use a feature provided by another package which is not part of angular but a core dependency,
the rxjs.
package, you find here, it's actually it's installed from the beginning.
Rxjs is all about observables and this is a concept which can be a bit more complex to grasp,
it's essentially about objects that help us pass data around
you could say and we'll dive deeper into observables step by step and I also dive deeper into them in
my complete guide on angular here on udemy and also a complete Youtube series I got.
So we simply need to import something from that rxjs package to get started and that something
is a subject, now that essentially is an event emitter
you could say but one which is actually for broader usage than the one angular ships with.
And now I will create this subject here as a private property too, I'll name this posts updated,
again taking a property name here which sounds like an event,
this is not required but also not the worst idea and I'll create a new instance of my subject, just as
the event emitter, this is a generic type
and here I plan on passing a list of posts as a payload. So we get the posts
updated subject here and now when we have add post here or when we call this,
I don't just want to update my posts,
I also thereafter
want to take my subject posts updated
snd there it's not emit but next and this pushes new value, it emits a new value and this value
is a copy of my posts after I updated them. So this is now the subject,
we can still leave get posts in there even though it's not that useful right now but that could change
later on, what I now want to do is of course I want to be able to listen to that subject because it's
emitting whenever we add a post,
how do I listen to it?
It's private so we can't directly access it
to prevent other components from emitting data with it.
What I'll add is I'll add a new method here,
get post update listener, the name is up to you of course and there, I will return this post updated
and then there's a special method we can call as observable
and now it returns an object to which we can listen
but where we can't emit. We can still emit from inside this file but not from files which received their
reference with the help of this method.
So now we got get posts update listener, we can now go to the post list component again and I will still
fetch the list of posts at the beginning
even though it's guaranteed to be empty right now
but what I will also do is I will set up a listener to that subject.
I do this by reaching out to this post service get post update listener, this returns this observable
and there we can call subscribe.
This is a method which is made available,
just putting this into a new line to make it easier to read, it still is part of this statement here.
So subscribe now sets up a subscription and subscribe actually takes three arguments, possible arguments.
The first one is a function which gets executed whenever new data is emitted,
the second argument will be called whenever an error is emitted,
this will never happen here and the third argument will be a function that is called whenever the observable
is completed, whenever there are no more values to be expected,
this will also never be the case here because it is an infinitely living subject so to say, we can always
create new posts. So we only add the first argument, a function which is called whenever a new value is
received and I'm using an arrow function here.
We received some data here,
the posts
right because in the post service, we are emitting our new posts I copy off them. So post is what we receive,
so I'll set the type to post array to
be very clear about what we're getting here
and in here, I can then set this posts equal to the posts I just received, to update them whenever
this, like you got a new value, received a new value.
Now one important thing, this subscription here actually doesn't cancel whenever this component is teared
down.
Now right now this component never disappears because we got only one page,
we get no way of removing that component from the UI
but later we will, later there will be more components, different pages and we want to ensure that whenever
this component is not part of the dom, the subscriptions which we set up in it are also not living anymore
otherwise we create a memory leak. So we will actually store that subscription in a new property which
will be of types subscription,
so I'll import subscription from rxjs like this, here subscription and now I will create a new property
here, private property maybe, it doesn't mater,
posts-sub which is of type subscription and it's undefined at the beginning and here in ngOnInit,
I will set this post-sub equal to this post service and the subscription we're defining here.
Now we just need to unsubscribe whenever this component is destroyed and there is another lifecycle
hook we can use for that,
we add it by implementing onDestroy, this forces us to add one other method, the ngOnDestroy method
which is called whenever this component is about to get removed and there I will reach out to my posts-sub,
not the service, the sub and call onSubscribe and this will remove the subscription and prevent memory
leaks.
And with this added if I go back, we can try this added post, does this work and hit save posts and you see we
can add new posts here, of course also with other content than the old one and now this is working with
the service. And whilst the setup is of course a bit more complex,
it saves us a lot of time since we don't have to build these chains of property and event binding and
you already learned quite a bit about observables here with this event emitter we're using here.
So now let's move on.